---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-propagandafication-whitewashing-and-sugarcoating-of-fascism/","tags":["political"],"dg-note-properties":{"author":"Rabelusk","tags":["political"]}}
---

Another day waking up, another headline: “ICE kidnaps naked 11-year-old,” “ICE pepper-sprays 6-month-old,” “Abrigo Garcias deported illegally with a green card.” When will it end? When will this blatantly wannabe-dictatorial president stop? Sometimes I wake up and hope that I was dreaming, only to be returned to the soul-crushing reality that is the modern-day United States. “But they aren’t actually fascist” is a far too common response, even after group chat records of Republican officials spewing white-supremacist, neo-Nazi propaganda, complaining about how “the Jews are at fault” and how “black people are worth less than white people.”

What defines fascism? Like most political ideologies, fascism doesn’t have a clear definition you can point to in all circumstances, but it’s usually defined under 14 characteristics. I won’t mention all of them, but these include discrimination against one or more group(s) of people, disdain for human rights, wanting a stronger military, etc. Even though I didn’t name all of them, Donald J. Trump falls under every single one. He’s actively lowering the PQOL (Physical Quality of Life), for example by cutting the funding for predominantly black high schools by three-fourths of what it was before. He has caused Russia to bomb Ukraine the most it ever has, even after Kremlin documents of Putin saying that Trump is easy to manipulate got leaked. He did this by stopping funding to Ukraine.

More on ICE: ICE is actively committing acts of terror upon whomever they see fit. We see this everywhere, from the before-mentioned video you can watch of a baby getting hit by a drive-by ICE agent trying to pepper-spray a dad driving down the road. Note also that the Abrigo Garcias was illegally deported to El Salvador, returned visibly skinnier, 20–30 pounds lighter. According to Garcias, he was forced to kneel for 12 hours a day, and if they (the inmates) fell due to exhaustion, they were beaten, some tortured, which his physical exam found to match up with. These are all acts of terror, and are all illegal, yet they face no consequences.

January 6th riots. On January 6th, 2020, the U.S. Capitol was raided. Trump was claiming that the election, which Joe Biden and Kamala Harris won against him, was rigged. Of course, there was no evidence of this claim. After Trump riled all of his supporters up, he said that they were going to protest in front of the Capitol. When they were in front of the Capitol, this big, angry mob had been previously told (by Trump) that they needed to “reclaim the rigged election,” almost like fire to gunpowder. The mob got angrier and angrier, to the point where they started attacking police officers. One extremist even assaulted an officer and drove a stun gun into his neck, sending him into cardiac arrest before he succumbed hours later to his wounds. One protester fell over and was trampled to death, and another one died after an officer told her repeatedly to step away from the broken door window she was trying to climb through. She didn’t comply, which led to the anxious officer firing a bullet at her from just a few meters away. In 2025, Trump pardoned many of the arrested rioters, including the man who killed the officer.

Lastly, the “No Kings Protest” and Trump’s character. In October 2025, the No Kings Protest was held; it was the largest protest in U.S. history, with millions upon millions of people attending. The protest was against Trump’s tyranny. Without getting too much into it, Trump is a convicted rapist (E. Jean Carroll) and has dozens of sexual abuse cases against him, including in his beauty pageants, where he has himself said that he was going into the women’s dressing rooms without consent. This was during Miss USA and Miss Teen USA. During the Miss Teen USA pageants, not only has he admitted to perving on 15- to 18-year-olds and walking into their dressing rooms, but many contestants have come out and alledged that he did it. In conclusion, which I wish was a joke, he is a rapist, child predator, fascist, racist, and authoritarian. I truly wish for all of this to end, but this is only the beginning of his second administration.